Update chapter on using continuous aggregates (#493)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/continuous-aggregates.md

invalidated data will be calculated.  Since this re-aggregation is
automatic, it doesn’t add any maintenance burden to your database.

### An introductory example [](quick-start)

As a quick introductory example, let's create a hypertable

> `conditions` containing temperature data for devices and continuous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`conditions` containing temperature data for devices and a continuous
```

aggregate to compute the daily average, minimum, and maximum
temperature. Start off by creating the hypertable and populate it with
some random data:

```sql
CREATE TABLE conditions (
      time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
      device INTEGER NOT NULL,
      temperature FLOAT NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY(time, device)
);
SELECT * FROM create_hypertable('conditions', 'time', 'device');

INSERT INTO conditions
SELECT time, (random()*30)::int, random()*80 - 40
FROM generate_series(TIMESTAMP '2020-01-01 00:00:00',
     		     TIMESTAMP '2020-06-01 00:00:00',
		     INTERVAL '10 min') AS time;
```

You can then create a continuous aggregate view to compute the daily
average, minimum, and maximum temperature:

```sql

> CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_daily

Reviewer 2: Do we want to set materialized_only = true here?

WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 day', time) AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;
```

Lastly, you should add a policy to ensure that the continuous
aggregate is refreshed on a regular basis.

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('conditions_summary_daily',
	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',
	end_interval => INTERVAL '1 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 h');
```

In this case, the continuous aggregate will be refreshed every hour
and refresh the last month's data.

You can now run a normal `SELECT` on the continuous aggregate and it
will give you the aggregated data, for example, to select the averages

> for the first three months:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for device 1 during the first three months:
```

```sql
SELECT bucket, avg FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE device = 1 AND bucket BETWEEN '2020-01-01' AND '2020-03-31'
ORDER BY bucket;
```

### A detailed look at continuous aggregate views [](detailed-look)

As you saw above, creating a refreshing [continuous
aggregate][api-continuous-aggs] consists of creating a continuous
aggregate view of the data using [`CREATE MATERIALIZED
VIEW`][postgres-createview] with the `timescaledb.continuous` and
adding a continuous aggregate policy for the continuous aggregate to
keep it refreshed.

You can create several continuous aggregates for the same

> hypertable. For example: to create a continuous aggregate view is

Reviewer 2: I think you mean in additiona to the earlier cagg ( the previous example) . Could make that more explicit. 
```suggestion
hypertable. For example, we could create another continuous aggregate view that summarizes the hourly data.
```

updated hourly, you would write:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_hourly
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 hour', time) AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;

-- Create the policy
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('conditions_summary_hourly',
	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',

> 	end_interval => NULL,

Reviewer: Don't we need to rationalize NULL in the same way?

> 	end_interval => NULL,

Reviewer 2: I agree with Erik here. This is not the standard usage and should not be in the docs. 
Generally policies would be : start_interval= NULL, end_interval = xxxx. This mimics the old cagg semantics : keep everything up to the end_interval up to date.
The other recommended usage is: start_interval = xxx and end_interval= yyy.  
We could argue it is possible to set end_interval=NULL, but users shouldn't be doing this without thinking through what that means and how that interacts with real time aggregates etc.

> 	end_interval => NULL,

Author: Changed it to 1 hour.

	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '5 min');
```

A `time_bucket` on the time partitioning column of the hypertable is
required in all continuous aggregate views. If you do not provide one,
you will get an error.

When the view is created, it will (by default) be refreshed so that it
contain an aggregate of the current data in `conditions`. If you make
changes to the hypertable and want to refresh an interval, you can
explicity refresh it by calling
[`refresh_continuous_aggregate`][refresh_continuous_aggregate] and

> give the range you want to refresh:

Reviewer 2: Should note what a refresh means: we are not rebuilding from scratch. Regions that were invalidated will be rebuilt. But other regions are not touched. So it is efficient. (cc @erimatnor please comment if this is correct).

Author: Added a comment about that.

Reviewer: @gayyappan it's correct.

> give the range you want to refresh:

Author: Wrote something. PTAL.

```sql
CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, '2020-05-01', '2020-06-01');
```

> Note that the end range is exclusive, so this will refresh the date

Reviewer 2: Need a note somewhre that all refreshes are bucket aligned. (perhaps advanced topics section?)

Author: I think it is more suitable for the advanced topics.

Reviewer: I agree with @gayyappan. Since we might not refresh the given range, which we go into depth about here, I think it is misleading to elide the fact that we will only refresh the fully covered buckets.

I think a quick note about this is sufficient and we can go into further depth in advanced topics. For instance

"Note that the refresh will only materialize the buckets that are fully covered by the given refresh window. So, unless the window is aligned with bucket boundaries, the function will likely refresh _less_ data than specified."

Author: Clarified in paragraph.

range `['2020-05-01', '2020-06-01')`, that is, up to but not including

> `2020-06-01`. You can use `NULL` to indicate an open-ended range, so
> to refresh the full range of the continuous aggregate, use:
> 
> ```sql
> CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, NULL, NULL);
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`2020-06-01`. While it is possible to use `NULL` to indicate an open-ended range,  we do not recommend doing so for tables that see continuous ingest of new data. Instead, never refresh the recent time intervals that still see a lot of writes. Those intervals will not produce accurate aggregates anyway and refreshing them will unnecessarily increase write amplification, which will slow down the ingest rate of the hypertable.

```sql
CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, NULL, NULL);
```
```

	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',
	end_interval => INTERVAL '1 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '5 min');
```

A `time_bucket` on the time partitioning column of the hypertable is
required in all continuous aggregate views. If you do not provide one,
you will get an error.

When the view is created, it will (by default) be populated with data
so that it contains an aggregate of the current data in
`conditions`.

It might, however, not always be desirable to populate the continuous
aggregate. If the amount of data in `conditions` is large and new data
is continuously being added, it is usually more meaningful to control
the order in which the data is refreshed. For example, it might be
more interesting to see the recent data but historical data can be
deferred to later. In those cases, the `WITH NO DATA` option can be
used to avoid aggregating the data during creation.

You could then add a policy to control the refresh of the recent data,
and also run manual refreshes using
[`refresh_continuous_aggregate`][refresh_continuous_aggregate] to
refresh the historical data in a controlled manner. For example, to
refresh one month of data you could write:

```sql

> CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, '2020-05-01', '2020-06-01');

Reviewer: PostgreSQL has functions and procedures. The former is called using `SELECT` and the latter with `CALL`. The difference between functions and procedures is, among other things, that procedures have transactional control, i.e., they can run across several transactions, and can therefore also not return any result.

The way refresh works, it needs to run across several transactions, and therefore must be a procedure. FWIW, we also have procedures in the jobs API.

> CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, '2020-05-01', '2020-06-01');

Reviewer 3: Sounds good.  So if it's not, this should be clarified in the docs API.  Thanks!

```

Unlike a regular materialized view, the refresh will only materialize
the data within the window that has changed in the underlying
hypertable since the last refresh. Therefore, if only a few buckets
need updating, then the refresh is quick.

Note that the end range is exclusive and aligned to the buckets of the
continuous aggregate, so this will refresh only the buckets that are
fully in the date range `['2020-05-01', '2020-06-01')`, that is, up to
but not including `2020-06-01`. While it is possible to use `NULL` to
indicate an open-ended range, we do not recommend doing so for tables
that see continuous ingest of new data since that would trigger a
refresh of buckets that are not yet filled completely.
	
You should avoid refreshing time intervals that still see a lot of
writes, which is usually the last bucket of the continuous
aggregate. These intervals are still changing and will not produce
accurate aggregate anyway and refreshing unnecessarily will increase
the write amplification, which will slow down the ingest rate of the
hypertable.

> ```sql

Reviewer 3: If we believe there should at least suggest usage, maybe just describe in text without example? 

"If `NULL` arguments are supplied for the start or end interval, refreshing the continuous aggregate will start at the beginning or end, respectively, of the hypertable.  This might materialize a lot ...

needs to create a continuous aggregate view of the data using [`CREATE
MATERIALIZED VIEW`][postgres-createview] with the
`timescaledb.continuous` option. Second.  a continuous aggregate
policy needs to be created to keep it refreshed.

You can create several continuous aggregates for the same
hypertable. For example, we could create another continuous aggregate
view that summarizes the hourly data.  updated hourly, you would
write:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_hourly
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 hour', time) AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;

-- Create the policy
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('conditions_summary_hourly',
	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',
	end_interval => NULL,
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '5 min');
```

A `time_bucket` on the time partitioning column of the hypertable is
required in all continuous aggregate views. If you do not provide one,
you will get an error.

When the view is created, it will (by default) be populated with data

> so that it contain an aggregate of the current data in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so that it contains an aggregate of the current data in
```

`conditions`. If you make changes to the hypertable and want to
refresh an interval of the continuous aggregate, you can explicity
refresh the continuous aggregate by calling
[`refresh_continuous_aggregate`][refresh_continuous_aggregate] and
give the range you want to refresh:

```sql
CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, '2020-05-01', '2020-06-01');
```

> This will update the buckets in the range that were invalidated by
> changes in the underlying hypertable, but not touch other buckets of
> the continuous aggregate, so it does not necessarily mean that all
> buckets in the range are touched. If there are just a few
> invalidations in the range, the refresh will be quick.

Reviewer: I would not start talking about invalidations here as it doesn't seem necessary to convey the main message (i.e., that refreshes are efficient). Instead, I suggest talking about how things work in the abstract.

```suggestion
Unlike a regular materialized view, the refresh will only materialize the data within the window that has changed in the underlying hypertable since the last refresh. Therefore, if only a few buckets need updating, then the refresh is quick.
```

range `['2020-05-01', '2020-06-01')`, that is, up to but not including
`2020-06-01`. While it is possible to use `NULL` to indicate an
open-ended range, we do not recommend doing so for tables that see
continuous ingest of new data.

You should avoid refreshing time intervals that still see a lot of
writes, which is usually the last bucket of the continuous
aggregate. These intervals are still changing and will not produce
accurate aggregate anyway and refreshing unnecessarily will increase
the write amplification, which will slow down the ingest rate of the
hypertable.

```sql
CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('conditions_summary_daily, NULL, NULL);
```

However, note that this might materialize a lot of data, can affect
other policies such as the data retention, and affects write
amplification, so it should only be used rarely.

>:TIP: If you want to check what invalidations there are you can use the following query:
>```sql
> WITH
>  hypertables AS (
>    SELECT
>      id AS hypertable_id,
>      format('%1$I.%2$I', schema_name, table_name)::regclass AS hypertable
>    FROM
>      _timescaledb_catalog.hypertable
>  )
>SELECT
>  hypertable,

> >  _timescaledb_internal.to_timestamp(lowest_modified_value) AS start_time,

Reviewer: There are several issues with this query.

1. It only works on timestamp-based tables
2. It only shows invalidations in the hypertable invalidation log and not the invalidations in the materialization invalidation log.
3. Showing raw invalidations might show a lot of duplicates, since the logs aren't deduped until a refresh runs.

Author: Removed.

currently support the `FILTER` clause even though it is possible to
parallelize but we might add support for this in a future version.

> #### Creating a continuous aggregate without refreshing it

Reviewer: Do we really need a separate section for this? Ii seems quite repetitive and I think we can just  cover this in the previous section.  I mean, to some extent it already mentions it:  "When the view is created, it will (by default) be refreshed so that it..." We can just continue with "Add the WITH NO DATA option to avoid materializing the view on creation. This might be preferred when there's a lot of data to materialize or the continuous aggregate is created as part of transaction block."

Otherwise we are just repeating pretty much the same example over-and-over again.

By default, a continuous aggregate is refreshed when created, which
means that it is immediately populated with data. Since this can be a
lengthy process a notice will be printed informing you that the
materialization is in progress.

If you have a lot of data, you might want to disable this using the
`WITH NO DATA` option to `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW`.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_daily
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 day', time) AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket
WITH NO DATA;
```

> #### Add a continuous aggregate policy

Author: Per Mike's suggestion, I think a brief example in the beginning with just the basic nuts and bolts might handle that. Let me see if I can reorder this section and still keep it together.

You can refresh the continuous aggregate view manually as above, but
it is much more convenient to add a policy that takes care of the
refresh using
[`add_continuous_aggregate_policy`][add-continuous-aggregate-policy],
for example:

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('device_summary',
	start_interval => NULL,
	end_interval => INTERVAL '2 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '2 h');
```

The policy will refresh a sliding window of the continuous aggregate
that is given by a start and end interval, which are relative to
[`CLOCK_TIMESTAMP`][clock_timestamp]. In the same was as for the
`refresh_continuous_aggregate` function, providing `NULL` to either of
the intervals will make it open-ended.

The `schedule_interval` tells how often the policy job should run, so
the most recent value in the continuous aggregate will be in the range

> `[end_interval, end_interval+schedule_interval)` relative to the

Reviewer: Maybe it is easier to say that the most recent bucket lags behind at most `schedule_interval+end_interval` (given that there is data to materialize in that bucket).

Author: Reworded.

> current time.

Author: Isn't that obvious?

currently support the `FILTER` clause even though it is possible to
parallelize but we might add support for this in a future version.

> By default, a continuous aggregate is refreshed when created, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, a continuous aggregate is populated with data when it is created. 
```

> By default, a continuous aggregate is populated with data when it is created. 
> means that it is immediately populated with data. Since this can be a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a continuous aggregate is populated with data when it is created, which
means that it is immediately populated with data. Since this can be a
```

Reviewer: If you choose to adopt my suggestion above, this paragraph can probably be removed.

lengthy process it is sometimes desirable to defer materialization to
a manual refresh or a policy that does it in the background. You can
disable the immediate materialization of data using the `WITH NO DATA`
option to `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW`.

#### Automatic refreshing with a continuous aggregate policy

You can refresh the continuous aggregate view manually as above, but

> it is also possible to automate the refreshing by adding a continuous aggregate 

Reviewer 2: typo: refreshing->refresh

Author: Changed.

policy with [`add_continuous_aggregate_policy`][add-continuous-aggregate-policy]. 

> For example:

Reviewer 2: Could you elaborate what the policy does? Something along the lines of:  This policy would refresh the continuous aggregate from the beginning until upto 2 hours ago.

Author: I added a comment before, but it is already outlined after the query, so it does look redundant.

```sql

> SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('device_summary',

Reviewer: The parameter choices here seem picked at random. I suggest we start by explaining the use case, i.e., what we (or the users) are trying to achieve. We need to setup a context where the reader understands that these parameter choices make sense. For instance, setting a `NULL` start interval will ensure that the aggregate will stay fully up-to-date with the source data from the beginning of time, including any deletions of source data. This is non-obvious as presented.

Therefore, I believe we need to focus on a couple of key use cases, as described in design docs. For instance:

1. The user wants the cagg to be always up-to-date with the source data, including following retention.
2. The user wants separate retention for caggs and source hypertable (keep cagg for longer, while dropping source data)
3. The user wishes to see recent aggregates immediately and either does not care about historical data or can aggregate it later (e.g., manually)

I think we should formulate our examples around such use cases and be clear with what we're trying to achieve with a particular policy.

I do realize that refocusing on use cases is a big change to this section, so I am happy to merge what we have and then rewrite again, if that's preferred.

Reviewer: The last use case (3) is commonly requested among users. For instance here: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/issues/1634#issuecomment-633861621

I think it would be a mistake to not include this somehow. But it need not happen as part of this PR. I imagine we'll continuous tweaking.

	start_interval => NULL,
	end_interval => INTERVAL '2 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '2 h');
```

When the policy runs it will refresh a window of data 
that is given by a start and end interval, which are relative to the
[`CLOCK_TIMESTAMP`][clock_timestamp] at the time of executing the policy. Similar to the

> `refresh_continuous_aggregate` function, providing `NULL` to either of

Reviewer 2: We should also add a case wiht non-null start_interval (say: start_interval=> '30 days', end_interval=> '1 day' ) and explain how that is different from the previous one.

Author: Isn't that quite obvious from the description following?

the intervals will always refresh the entire continuous aggregate.

The `schedule_interval` determines how often the policy job runs, so

> the most recent value in the continuous aggregate lags behind with at

Reviewer 2: I think this is confusing. Would suggest you drop the latter half of the sentence and restate as 
```suggestion
The schedule_interval determines how often the policy job runs.
```
An example that modifies the schedule_interval using alter_job would be pertinent here.

most `end_interval` + `schedule_interval` relative to the current

> time.

Reviewer: This paragraph has repetitions.

> A continuous aggregate may be dropped by using the `DROP MATERIALIZED
> VIEW` command, which deletes the hypertable that stores the
> materialized data for the continuous aggregate; it does not affect the
> data in the hypertable from which the continuous aggregate is derived
> (`conditions` in the example above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A continuous aggregate and all its aggregates may be dropped by using the `DROP MATERIALIZED
VIEW` command; it does not affect the
data in the hypertable from which the continuous aggregate is derived
(`conditions` in the example above).
```

```sql
DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_daily;
```

---

### Using Continuous Aggregates [](using)

> To select data from a continuous aggregate, use a `SELECT` query on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To query data from a continuous aggregate, use a `SELECT` query on
```

currently support the `FILTER` clause even though it is possible to

> parallelize but we might add support for this in a future version.

Reviewer 3: We've often had people confuse the `FILTER` keyword with a `WHERE` clause, which is often described as a filter predicate.  Way to clarify?

> By default, a continuous aggregate is populated with data when it is

Reviewer 3: +1

created. Since this can be a lengthy process it is sometimes desirable
to defer materialization to a manual refresh or a policy that does it
in the background. You can disable the immediate materialization of
data using the `WITH NO DATA` option to `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW`.

#### Automatic refresh with a continuous aggregate policy

You can refresh the continuous aggregate view manually as mentioned
above, but you can also automate the refresh by adding a continuous
aggregate policies to automatically refresh data.

There are a few situations that you might want to automate:

> - You want the continuous aggregate to be up to date with the

Author: Reformulated the points, but they are already describe later in the text.

- The parameter `start_interval` indicate the start of the refresh
  window relative to the current time when the policy executes.
- The parameter `end_interval` indicate the end of the refresh window
  relative to the current time when the policy executes.
- The parameter `schedule_interval` indicate the refresh interval in
  wall-clock time.

Similar to the `refresh_continuous_aggregate` function, providing
`NULL` to `start_interval` or `end_interval` makes the range
open-ended and will extend to the beginning or end of time,
respectively.

For example, to create a policy for `conditions_summary_hourly` that
keeps the continuous aggregate up to date with the underlying
hypertable `conditions` and run every hour, you would write:

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('conditions_summary_hourly',
	start_interval => NULL,
	end_interval => INTERVAL '1 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 h');
```

This will ensure that all data in the continuous aggregate is up to
date with the hypertable except the last hour and also ensure that we
do not try to refresh the last bucket of the continuous
aggregate. Since we give an open-ended `start_interval`, any data that

> is removed from `conditions` will also be removed from

Author: Mentioned `drop_chunks`.

`conditions_summary_hourly`. In effect, the continuous aggregate will
always reflect the data in the underlying hypertable.

If you instead want to make sure that the aggregate data is kept in
the continuous aggregate even if it is removed from the underlying
hypertable, you can set a range for the `start_interval`. For example,
if you have a [data retention policy][sec-data-retention] that removed
data older than one month, you can set `start_interval` to one month
(or less) and thereby not refresh data older than one month, which
includes data that is removed.

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('conditions_summary_hourly',

> 	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',

Reviewer 2: Just realized that since we are renaming these should be start_offset and end_offset?

> 	start_interval => INTERVAL '1 month',

Reviewer 3: Do we support months, or just 30 days?  I noticed that Gayathri suggested updating -- any reason for that?

Reviewer: FWIW, 1 month is not equal to 30 days. If you want to policy to be deterministic, then maybe 30 days is actually more appropriate. I don't feel strongly though, as this is not the focus.

Author: Set it to 1 month.

	end_interval => INTERVAL '1 h',
	schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 h');
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe add something:

"It is important to consider the implications of continuous aggregate policies and data retention policies together, to ensure that dropping data from the underlying hypertable doesn't lead to overwriting aggregates in the continuous aggregate view with NULL values (unless desired).  For example, in this above example, if the data retention policy was instead  2 weeks while the continuous aggregate policy remained 1 month, after data more than 2 weeks is dropped, the next time the continuous aggregate is refreshed, the aggregate data from 2-4 weeks ago will be effectively deleted from the view."

Or something like that?

Reviewer: I would not say that we overwrite with NULL values since that implies we actually write values as opposed to deleting.

Author: Added a warning about this, along the lines of what @mike suggested.

> A continuous aggregate and all its aggregates may be dropped by using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A continuous aggregate may be dropped by using
```

(given by the parameter `bucket_width`) function in the view
definition to decide what to update. Time-series data is typically
ordered, so it is usually the last bucket that gets most of the
updates. Recomputing the last bucket when new data arrives negates
many of the benefits of using continuous aggregation. Older buckets
rarely get updated and are usually aggregated only once.

> As a result, the materialization lags behind by one bucket and up to

Reviewer: This seems to repeat (or be related to) the ``[end_interval, end_interval+schedule_interval)` thing above. Maybe remove/harmonize.

an additional `schedule_interval` as a result of the job not running

> continuously.

Author: This was there before, I just reformatted. Will take closer look at it. I was not very happy with several sections of the text, but was unsure where to draw the line regarding a re-write.

```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2020-01-01' AND bucket < '2020-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

---

### Real-Time Aggregates [](real-time-aggregates)

Real-time aggregates are a capability (first introduced in TimescaleDB 1.7)
whereby querying the *continuous aggregate view* will then compute
fully up-to-date aggregate results by combining the materialized

> partial aggregate with recent data from the hypertable that has yet to

Reviewer 2: we have removed "how this works" section. Without that the reader does not know what is the materialized partial aggregate. 
Adding a couple of sentences on what is stored in the materialization  should suffice as an introduction to the partial aggregate.

Reviewer 3: +1

Reviewer: I think this whole section is bloated, complicated, and confusing. I suggest folding this into the intro. Probably best left for a separate PR though.

Author: Leaving it for now. I will handle it as a separate PR.

be materialized by the continuous aggregate. By combining raw and
materialized data in this way, one gets accurate and up-to-date
results while still enjoying the speedups of pre-computing a large
portion of the result.

As an example, continuous aggregates _without_ this real-time capability make
it really fast to get aggregate answers by pre-computing these values (such as
the min/max/average value over each hour). This way, if you are collecting raw
data every second, querying hourly data over the past week means reading 24 x 7
= 168 values from the database, as opposed to processing 60 x 60 x 24 x 7 =

> 604,800 values at query time.

Reviewer: Do we need this? Makes my head spin.

Reviewer 3: Erik doesn't like my example =]

But this type of continuous aggregate does not incorporate the very
latest data, _i.e._, since the last time the asynchronous aggregation job ran
inside the database. So if you are generating hourly rollups, you might only
run this materialization job every hour.

With real-time aggregates, a single, simple query will combine your
pre-computed hourly rollups with the raw data from the last
hour, to always give you an up-to-date answer.  Now, instead of touching
604,800 rows of raw data, the query reads 167 pre-computed rows of
hourly data and 3600 rows of raw secondly data, leading to significant
performance improvements.

Real-time aggregates are now the default behavior for any continuous
aggregates. To revert to the previous behavior, in which the query
touches materialized data only and doesn't combine with the latest raw
data, add the parameter `timescaledb.materialized_only=true` when
creating the continuous aggregate view.

You can also use this in conjunction with the `ALTER MATERIALIZED

> VIEW` to turn this feature on or off at any time.

Reviewer 3: Create hyperlink to API docs?

Author: Added link to API documentation.

>:TIP: To upgrade continuous aggregates that were created in a version
earlier than TimescaleDB 1.7 to use real-time aggregates, ALTER the
view to set `timescaledb.materialized_only=false`.  All subsequent
queries to the view will immediately use the real-time aggregate
feature.

---

> ### Advanced Usage

Reviewer 3: What's the difference between "Advanced Usage" and "Advanced Topics"?

Author: There is none. Moved the heading so that there is only one and also removed some stuff and moved some stuff around.

The `schedule_interval` option to `add_continuous_aggregate_policy`
controls how frequently materialization jobs will be launched. Setting
a shorter interval will mean materializations happen more frequently
but each job consumes background worker resources while it is running.

When querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,
`conditions_summary_daily`) by default you will get a complete view of
the data including both the partially aggregated data and newer,

> unaggregated data in the hypertable (for example, `conditions`).

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
unaggregated data in the hypertable (for example, `conditions`),
based on the [real-time aggregate capability](#real-time-aggregate).
```

If you, however, want to just get partially aggregated data and not
include recent data that has yet to be materialized, you can set the
option `timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER
MATERIALIZED VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

Each continuous aggregate uses the *bucket width* of the `time_bucket`
(given by the parameter `bucket_width`) function in the view
definition to decide what to update. Time-series data is typically
ordered, so it is usually the last bucket that gets most of the
updates. Recomputing the last bucket when new data arrives negates
many of the benefits of using continuous aggregation. Older buckets
rarely get updated and are usually aggregated only once.

> As a result, it is recommended to configure continuous aggregate policies with a positive `end_interval`, i.e., the materialization will lag behind the most recent time by this amount. A recommended value is at least one time bucket.

Reviewer 2: Adding the comment here as the following section is no longer applicable. We should discuss the caveats with saving down sampled data and the danger of an explicit refresh to the area.
i..e user drops data for [1, 20]
cagg has all data from [1, 40]. But refreshed only [20, 40]
Now an explicit refresh to  [ 10, 20] will drop the data for that region.

Author: Removed part of this text and moved some to the discussion about the continuous aggregates above.

You can read more about data retention with continuous aggregates in

> the [*Data retention*][sec-data-retention] section.

Reviewer 3: Move the views stuff out of "advanced usage"?  It also seems like the only "grouped" section here; otherwise, organize the rest of advanced usage under subsections (like "Using  `timescaledb.information` Views) ?

Author: Added this comment to the warning above, and the preceding text to the discussion on using continuous aggregates.

---

### Advanced Topics [](advanced-usage)

#### Continuous Aggregates using Integer-Based Time [](create-integer)

Usually, continuous aggregates are defined on a
[date/time-type](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-datetime.html)
column, but it is also possible to create your own custom scheme for
handling aggregation for tables that are using an integer time
column. This can be useful if you have tables that use other measures
of time that can be represented as integer values, such as nanosecond

> epochs, minutes since founding date, or whatever is suitable for your

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason this example (and others) typically have a `PRIMARY KEY`?  That's usually an anti-pattern...especially setting a primary (i.e., UNIQUE) key on _time_.

Author: Most comes from old documentation, we can easily remove it, but why is setting a primary key on time a problem?

accomplished by running [`set_chunk_time_interval`][api-set-chunk-interval] on
the materialization hypertable.  

**Creating Indexes on the Materialization Hypertable:** By default,
the database will automatically create composite indexes on each
column specified in the `GROUP BY` combined with the `time_bucket`
column (i.e. in our example, we would create an index on `{device_id,
bucket}` and if we had grouped by other columns, `foo` and `bar`, we
would also create indexes on `{foo, bucket}` and `{bar,
bucket}`). Setting `timescaledb.create_group_indexes` to `false` when
creating the view will prevent this.  If we want to create additional
indexes or drop some of the default ones, we can do so by creating or
dropping the appropriate indexes on the materialization hypertable

> directly.

Reviewer: Add that the name of the materialization table is found in the `continuous_aggregates` view?

[GitHub][timescale-github] or [Slack][support-slack].

> **Parallelized Materializations:** Currently, materializations are

Reviewer: I am wondering if we should remove the whole Future Work. Maybe replace with "Limitations".

It seems slightly odd to me to give this kind of roadmap that we aren't sure about when and if we will deliver on.

Author: All for removing the future work section, I do not think we should have any of those at all since they are hard to keep accurate.

Reviewer: Then let's remove. At least the "Synchronous Invalidation" section doesn't seem up-to-date with recent changes so it is confusing to keep that part.

accomplished by running [`set_chunk_time_interval`][api-set-chunk-interval] on
the materialization hypertable.  

**Creating Indexes on the Materialization Hypertable:** By default,
the database will automatically create composite indexes on each
column specified in the `GROUP BY` combined with the `time_bucket`

> column (i.e. in our example, we would create an index on `{device_id,
> bucket}` and if we had grouped by other columns, `foo` and `bar`, we
> would also create indexes on `{foo, bucket}` and `{bar,
> bucket}`). Setting `timescaledb.create_group_indexes` to `false` when

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
column (i.e., in our example, because the continuous aggregate view
is defined as `GROUP BY device, bucket`, we would automatically
create a composite index on `{device, bucket}`.  If we had additionally
grouped by additional columns (e.g., `GROUP BY device, foo, bar, bucket`),
we would create additional indexes as well (`{foo, bucket}` and
`{bar, bucket}`). Setting `timescaledb.create_group_indexes` to `false` when
```
